CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL TRADE TRIBUNAL
COMMENCEMENT OF PRELIMINARY INJURY INQUIRY
Certain photovoltaic modules and laminates
The Canadian International Trade Tribunal (the Tribunal) hereby gives notice that, pursuant to subsection 34(2) of the Special Import Measures Act (SIMA), it has initiated a preliminary injury inquiry (Preliminary Injury Inquiry No. PI-2014-003) to determine whether the evidence discloses a reasonable indication that the alleged injurious dumping and subsidizing of photovoltaic modules and laminates consisting of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells, including laminates shipped or packaged with other components of photovoltaic modules, and thin film photovoltaic products produced from amorphous silicon (a-Si), cadmium telluride (CdTe), or copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS), originating in or exported from the People's Republic of China, excluding modules, laminates or thin film products with a power output not exceeding 100 W, and also excluding modules, laminates or thin film products incorporated into electrical goods where the function of the electrical goods is other than power generation and these electrical goods consume the electricity generated by the photovoltaic product (the subject goods), have caused injury or retardation or are threatening to cause injury, as these words are defined in SIMA.

The Tribunal's preliminary injury inquiry will be conducted by way of written submissions. Each person or government wishing to participate in the preliminary injury inquiry must file a notice of participation with the Tribunal on or before December 22, 2014. Each counsel who intends to represent a party in the preliminary injury inquiry must file a notice of representation, as well as a declaration and undertaking, with the Tribunal on or before December 22, 2014.

On December 29, 2014, the Tribunal will issue a List of Participants. Counsel and parties are required to serve their respective submissions on each other on the dates outlined below. Public submissions are to be served on counsel and those parties who are not represented by counsel. Confidential submissions are to be served only on counsel who have access to the confidential record, and who have filed an undertaking with the Tribunal. This information will be included in the List of Participants. Ten copies of all submissions must be served on the Tribunal.

Submissions by parties opposed to the complaint must be filed not later than noon, on January 6, 2015. The complainants may make submissions in response to the submissions of parties opposed to the complaint not later than noon, on January 13, 2015. At that time, other parties in support of the complaint may also make submissions to the Tribunal.

In accordance with section 46 of the Canadian International Trade Tribunal Act, a person who provides information to the Tribunal and who wishes some or all of the information to be kept confidential must, among other things, submit a non-confidential edited version or summary of the information designated as confidential, or a statement indicating why such a summary cannot be made.

Written submissions, correspondence and requests for information regarding this notice should be addressed to the Canadian International Trade Tribunal, 333 Laurier Avenue West, 15th Floor, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0G7, 613-993-3595 (telephone), 613-990-2439 (fax), secretary-secretaire@citt-tcce.gc.ca (email).

Further details regarding this preliminary injury inquiry, including the schedule of key events, are contained in the documents entitled “Additional Information” and “Preliminary Injury Inquiry Schedule” appended to the notice of commencement of preliminary injury inquiry available on the Tribunal's Web site at www.citt-tcce.gc.ca/en/dumping-and-subsidizing/preliminary-injury-inquiries-subsection-342/notices-and-schedules.

Ottawa, December 8, 2014
