CANADA ENERGY REGULATOR
APPLICATION TO EXPORT ELECTRICITY TO THE UNITED STATES AS A BORDER ACCOMMODATION
The Canadian Transit Company
By an application dated 25 October 2021, The Canadian Transit Company (the Applicant) has applied to the Canada Energy Regulator (the CER) under Division 2 of Part 7 of the Canadian Energy Regulator Act (the Act) for authorization to export 200 kW of firm power and no greater than 50 MWh per year of firm energy for a period of 30 years commencing on January 1, 2022. The export of electricity constitutes a border accommodation transfer under the National Energy Board Electricity Regulations, SOR/97-130.

The Commission of the Canada Energy Regulator (the Commission) wishes to obtain the views of interested parties on this application before issuing a permit or recommending to the Governor in Council that the application be designated for a licensing procedure. The Directions on Procedure that follow explain in detail the procedure that will be used.

The Applicant shall provide a copy of the application by email to any person who requests one by emailing kkalczynski@centraltransport.com. The application is also publicly available on the CER website.
Written submissions that any interested party wishes to present shall be filed online with the CER in care of the Secretary of the Commission, and emailed to the Applicant by 29 November 2021.
Any answer to submissions that the Applicant wishes to present in response to item 2 of this Notice of Application and Directions on Procedure shall be filed with the CER in care of the Secretary of the Commission and emailed to the party that filed the submission by 14 December 2021.
For further information on the procedures governing the Commission’s examination, contact the Secretary of the Commission at 403‑292‑4800 (telephone).
The Canada Energy Regulator is dedicated to the safety and well-being of its staff, Indigenous communities, the public, and all those with whom it works closely. For information on how the CER is continuing its regulatory oversight during the COVID-19 pandemic, please refer to the CER COVID-19 response page.

The CER’s preferred filing method is online through its e-filing tool, which provides step-by-step instructions. If you are unable to file documents online, you may send them by email to secretary@cer-rec.gc.ca.

Jean-Denis Charlebois
Secretary of the Commission of the Canada Energy Regulator
