APPLICATION TO EXPORT ELECTRICITY TO THE UNITED STATES
CP Energy Marketing Inc., on behalf of CP Energy Marketing L.P.

By an application dated January 17, 2022, CP Energy Marketing Inc., on behalf of CP Energy Marketing L.P. (the Applicant), has applied to the Canada Energy Regulator (the CER) under Division 2 of Part 7 of the Canadian Energy Regulator Act (the Act) for authorization to export up to 2 000 000 MWh of firm energy annually and up to 5 000 000 MWh of interruptible energy annually, for a period of 10 years. The Applicant, or its affiliates, has an interest in the following generation or transmission facilities in Canada:

British Columbia:

150 Mile House Waste Heat, 150 Mile House Island Generation Facility, Campbell River
Quality Wind, Tumbler Ridge
Savona Waste Heat, Savona
Alberta:

Clover Bar Energy Centre, Edmonton
Clover Bar Landfill, Edmonton
Genesee Generating Station, Warburg
Halkirk Wind, Halkirk
Joffre Co-generation, Joffre
Shepard Energy Centre, Calgary
Whitla Wind, Bow Island
Ontario:

East Windsor Co-generation, Windsor
Goreway Power Station, Brampton
Kingsbridge 1, Goderich
Port Dover & Nanticoke Wind, Jarvis
York Energy Centre, Newmarket
The Commission of the Canada Energy Regulator (the Commission) wishes to obtain the views of interested parties on this application before issuing a permit or recommending to the Governor in Council that the application be designated for a licensing procedure. The Directions on Procedure that follow explain in detail the procedure that will be used.

The Applicant shall provide a copy of the application by email to any person who requests one by emailing legal counsel, Mr. Zoltan Nagy-Kovacs at znagykovacs@capitalpower.com. The application is also publicly available on the CER website.
Written submissions that any interested party wishes to present shall be filed online with the CER in care of the Secretary of the Commission, and emailed to the Applicant by February 21, 2022.
Pursuant to subsection 359(2) of the Act, the Commission is interested in the views of submitters with respect to
(a) the effect of the exportation of the electricity on provinces other than that from which the electricity is to be exported; and
(b) whether the Applicant has
(i) informed those who have declared an interest in buying electricity for consumption in Canada of the quantities and classes of service available for sale, and
(ii) given an opportunity to buy electricity on conditions as favourable as the conditions specified in the application to those who, within a reasonable time after being so informed, demonstrate an intention to buy electricity for consumption in Canada.
Any answer to submissions that the Applicant wishes to present in response to items 2 and 3 of this Notice of Application and Directions on Procedure shall be filed with the CER in care of the Secretary of the Commission and emailed to the party that filed the submission by February 28, 2022.
For further information on the procedures governing the Commission’s examination, contact the Secretary of the Commission at 403‑292‑4800 (telephone).
The Canada Energy Regulator is dedicated to the safety and well-being of its staff, Indigenous communities, the public, and all those with whom it works closely. For information on how the CER is continuing its regulatory oversight during the COVID-19 pandemic, please refer to the CER COVID-19 updates page.

The CER’s preferred filing method is online through its e-filing tool, which provides step-by-step instructions. If you are unable to file documents online, you may send them by email to secretary@cer-rec.gc.ca.

Ramona Sladic
Secretary of the Commission of the Canada Energy Regulator

(Erratum)
